Hey everyone. Welcome back to Movie Recap.
My name is Silverra. Today I'm gonna show
you a 1995 science fiction action film, based on
2000 AD comics characters called, Judge Dredd.
When the story opens, Herman "Fergee"
Ferguson is returning to Mega City 1
after serving a sentence in the Aspen
Penal Colony. He arrives at his new home,
Heavenly Haven, a dangerous neighborhood
which is embroiled in a vicious "block" war.
Gangsters have set up their command post
in his new apartment and have opened fire
on their rivals in another building and on the
street, 40 stories below. Fergee finds himself
an unwitting accomplice, passing
ammunition to the block warriors.
Street Judges Hershey and her candidate
judge respond to the block war.
Hershey calls immediately for backup, which
arrives in the form of Judge Joseph Dredd,
the most famous of all the Street Judges.
He leads an assault on the block warriors,
dispatching several of them rapidly with his
pistol, the Lawgiver 2. Hershey's candidate is
killed when he rushes into the command post and
is shot immediately. Dredd kills everyone but the
block war leader and charges him with several
violations of the Mega City Municipal Code,
before summarily executing him for the candidate's
murder. He announces that court is adjourned.
Outside the apartment, he finds Fergee hiding in
a servo-droid and finds him guilty as a repeat
offender, giving him five more years in Aspen.
Fergee claims he's innocent and was hiding from
the block warriors, however, Dredd refuses to be
swayed and dismisses Fergee to re-incarceration.
Dredd reports to Chief Justice Fargo, who
questions Dredd's hardened methods of summary
execution. He believes Dredd when the judge
tells him that the executions were unavoidable.
Fargo assigns Dredd to teaching ethics
at the academy a few days per week.
At the Aspen Penal Colony, Warden Miller meets
with a man named Rico and gives him a small
object that contains a copy of Rico's badge
and a picture of a reporter, Vartis Hammond,
who has done several investigative reports
on the Street Judges which are high critical.
Rico suddenly unlocks a secret compartment
in the box and it becomes a small pistol,
which he uses to shoot Miller through the throat.
Miller is unable to match the voice-identification
that disarms the cannons in Rico's cell and he is
immediately killed by them. Rico hides and is able
to massacre the guards who rush into the room.
At the Academy, Dredd tells a pool of
cadets about the weaponry of a street judge
and how little of it matters where knowledge
of the Mega City Municipal Code is concerned.
He also tells them that they stand a high
chance of being killed on duty and that
if they live to old age they will undertake
the Long Walk into the Cursed Earth,
where they will teach the savage denizens outside
the city walls of the law. Hershey later speaks to
Dredd about his obstinate personality and whether
he had any friends. Dredd tells her that he did
have a friend at the Academy but was forced to
judge and sentence him when he broke the law.
Rico stows away on a shuttle from
Aspen in a body bag. In Mega City,
he goes to a pawn shop and retrieves a box set
aside for him. In the box is a judge's uniform
and a Lawgiver pistol. When Rico reaches for the
pistol, the pawnshop owner warns him not to pick
it up because all Lawgiver's are booby-trapped and
will only recognize the grip of a street judge.
Rico picks up the pistol, unharmed by the
defense mechanism, and shoots the man dead,
revealing that he is a judge himself. Rico finds
a giant combat droid, an ABC Warrior, in the shop
and reactivates it, giving it the duty of being
his personal bodyguard and a mission of "war".
At Hammond's apartment, an unidentifiable
judge bursts in and kills Hammond and his wife.
The incident is captured on a security
camera and Hammond's final word is "DREDD!!"
Dredd is arrested on the street
and incarcerated for trial.
Dredd chooses Hershey to defend him due to
her expertise in criminal law. At the trial,
the recording from the security camera is
presented, however, Hershey successfully has
the evidence dismissed as circumstantial since
Dredd cannot be positively identified. However,
new evidence is presented; the Lawgiver 2 pistol
has a secret feature that captures the DNA of
the wielder and imprints it on every round of
ammunition fired. The DNA from the rounds that
killed Hammond and his wife are an exact match
for Dredd himself. Hershey and Dredd's defense
crumbles and Dredd is sentenced to death. Fargo,
who is overcome with guilt at seeing Dredd, one of
his greatest students, sentenced, decides, with
some goading from Justice Griffin, to retire as
Chief Justice and leave Mega City on his long walk
into the Cursed Earth. Before he resigns, Fargo
asks the Justice Council to commute Dredd's death
sentence and send him to the Aspen Penal Colony
for life. The council agrees, Fargo leaves Mega
City in honor and Griffin becomes Chief Justice.
Later, when Griffin returns to his
office, he is confronted by Rico,
who demands access to a project called "Janus".
Griffin tells Rico that there must be a demand
for the project to be implemented; violent
crime must engulf the city for Griffin to
convince the Justice Council to re-institute
Janus. Rico promises to do just that.
Dredd is put on to a shuttle going to Aspen;
seated next to him is Fergee. (Seated around them
are several criminals who were sentenced by Dredd
himself.) Dredd and Fergee argue briefly about how
Dredd unfairly re-convicted Fergee; Dredd claims
"the law doesn't make mistakes" and Fergee asks
Dredd to explain how the judge became convicted
himself. Just then, another con on the shuttle
attacks Dredd. On the ground, the Angel Family,
religious fanatics and pirates of the Cursed
Earth, blast the shuttle out of the sky with a
rocket launcher. In the ensuing chaos, the pilots
of the shuttle are killed. Dredd and Fergee are
the only survivors and are captured by the Angels.
In her apartment,Hershey conducts her
own investigation of Dredd's conviction
but quickly find herself locked
out of Central's online system.
In the Angel Family's lair, Dredd identifies them
as pirates and scavengers. Fergee, in an attempt
to escape their clutches, suddenly proclaims
himself a believer in the Angel's religion
and is let go. Dredd then reveals the Angel's
darkest secret; they are cannibals and plan to
eat Fergee in sacrifice. Dredd frees himself
and is immediately attacked by the Angels,
whom he takes out one at a time. When Pa Angel
attacks Dredd, he is shot dead by one of the
salvage team sent by Chief Justice Griffin
himself to investigate the shuttle crash.
The two salvage men prepare to execute Dredd
when they are shot dead by Chief Justice Fargo,
who'd found the crash site. Fargo himself
is critically wounded by Mean Machine Angel,
whom Dredd had knocked out moments before.
Dredd fights Mean and electrocutes him,
citing a violation of the Mega City
code for illegal use of electricity.
Hershey consults a promising cadet,
Ohlmeyer, about a photo she'd found
of Dredd as an infant with his parents. Ohlmeyer
quickly determines that the photo is a forgery.
As Fargo dies from his wounds
he tells Dredd about Janus,
a sophisticated genetics project that tried
to clone children with the best traits of
the existing judges in an attempt to create the
perfect Judge. There were two subjects produced,
Rico and Dredd himself, who never knew Rico was
his brother. The project was a massive failure
with Rico becoming a psychotic monster, judged
by Dredd and sentenced to Aspen for life. Fargo
dies and Dredd vows to return to Mega City and
stop Rico from starting the Janus project again.
Back in Mega City, chaos erupts as Rico, using
his ABC robot, declares war on the Street
Judges. Many are killed and their numbers reach a
critical low point. Hershey detects a power surge
near the Statue of Liberty and moments later is
almost killed when her Lawmaster cycle explodes.
The Judges Council meets and discusses the
crisis, knowing that they cannot replenish
their ranks quickly enough, even if they conscript
every candidate at the Academy. Griffin suggests
that they unlock the Janus project, which can
produce a fully mature judge in mere hours
(with the technology being more advanced than 20
years before, it's possible to create adult clones
rather than children). Each member of the council
gives their authorization, as does Griffin,
however they collectively object when they realize
that the project was already a major failure.
Just then, Rico enters the room and murders
the entire council, leaving Griffin alive.
Outside the city walls, Dredd and Fergee are
able to enter the city through a heat vent,
barely making it inside. They
enter the Halls of Justice,
where Dredd steals a judge's uniform. Dredd finds
the murdered members of the council and Griffin.
He also sees Rico but fails to stop
him. Griffin shoots himself in the arm,
framing Dredd for the assault and the murder of
the council. When guards move in to arrest Dredd,
he flees on a newer model Lawmaster, flying off
with Fergee. After a furious chase, they escape.
Dredd finds Hershey at her apartment and tells
her of Rico's plan. She goes with him to the
Statue of Liberty where Rico has already started
the Janus project. When Griffin objects to Rico
replacing the old DNA samples with his own,
Rico has the ABC robot dismember him alive.
When Dredd, Hershey and Fergee try to enter
the lab, Rico has the robot shoot Fergee and
seize Hershey. With Rico threatening to have
Hershey killed, Dredd agrees to listen to
Rico explain his plan to create a super race
of judges that will do only their bidding.
Dredd naturally refuses to join Rico and they
battle hand-to-hand. Fergee distracts the ABC
robot long enough to disable it and Hershey
fights with Rico's assistant, Ilsa Hayden,
chief scientist of the Janus project. Rico
finally corners Dredd where he hangs above
the city. Rico tells Dredd that his judgement
is death for betraying Rico years before.
Dredd is able to distract Rico with a
flare from his Lawgiver and pulls Rico
over the edge where he falls to his death.
Hershey finds Dredd and helps him to safety.
On the street, Dredd is greeted as a hero.
When asked if he'd like to take the position
of Chief Justice, he refuses, saying
he would rather remain a Street Judge.
Thanks for watching. See
you in another Movie Recap.
Please LIKE and SUBSCRIBE, and click the bell
icon to get new video update.
Have a nice day.